Work on artificial neural networks, commonly referred to as “neural networks,” has been motivated right from its inception by the recognition that the human brain computes in an entirely different way from the
conventional digital computer. The brain is a highly complex, nonlinear, and parallel computer (information-processing system). It has the capability to organize its structural constituents, known as neurons, so as to perform certain computations (e.g., pattern recognition, perception, and motor control) many
times faster than the fastest digital computer in existence today. Consider, for example, human vision, which is an information-processing task. It is the function of the visual system to provide a representation of the environment around us and, more important, to supply the information we need to interact with the environment.  To be specific, the brain routinely accomplishes perceptual recognition tasks (e.g., recognizing a familiar face embedded in an unfamiliar scene) in approximately 100–200 ms, whereas tasks of much lesser complexity take a great deal longer on a powerful computer.  For another example, consider the sonar of a bat. Sonar is an active echolocation system. In addition to providing information about how far away a target (e.g., a flying insect) is, bat sonar conveys information about the relative velocity of the target, the size of the target, the size of various features of the target, and the azimuth and elevation of the target. The complex neural computations needed to extract all this information from the target echo occur within a brain the size of a plum. Indeed, an echolocating bat can pursue and capture its target with a facility and success rate that would be the envy of a radar or sonar engineer.  How, then, does a human brain or the brain of a bat do it? At birth, a brain already has considerable structure and the ability to build up its own rules of behavior through what we usually refer to as “experience.” Indeed, experience is built up over time, with much of the development (i.e., hardwiring) of the human brain taking place during the first two years from birth, but the development continues well beyond that stage.  A “developing” nervous system is synonymous with a plastic brain: Plasticity permits the developing nervous system to adapt to its surrounding environment. Just as plasticity appears to be essential to the functioning of neurons as information-processing units in the human brain, so it is with neural networks made up of artificial neurons. In its most general form, a neural network is a machine that is designed to model the way in which the brain performs a particular task or function of interest;
the network is usually implemented by using electronic components or is simulated in software on a digital computer. In this book, we focus on an important class of neural networks that perform useful computations through a process of learning. To achieve good performance, neural networks employ a massive interconnection of simple computing cells referred to as “neurons” or “processing units.” We may thus offer the following definition of a neural network viewed as an adaptive machine1: A neural network is a massively parallel distributed processor made up of simple processing units that has a natural propensity for storing experiential knowledge and making it available for use. It resembles the brain in two respects: 1. Knowledge is acquired by the network from its environment through a learning process.  2. Interneuron connection strengths, known as synaptic weights, are used to store the acquired knowledge. The procedure used to perform the learning process is called a learning algorithm, the function of which is to modify the synaptic weights of the network in an orderly fashion to attain a desired design objective.  The modification of synaptic weights provides the traditional method for the design of neural networks. Such an approach is the closest to linear adaptive filter theory, which is already well established and successfully applied in many diverse fields (Widrow and Stearns, 1985; Haykin, 2002). However, it is also possible for a neural network to modify its own topology, which is motivated by the fact that neurons in the human brain can die and new synaptic connections can grow.  Benefits of Neural Networks It is apparent that a neural network derives its computing power through, first, its massively parallel distributed structure and, second, its ability to learn and therefore generalize. Generalization refers to the neural network’s production of reasonable outputs for inputs not encountered during training (learning). These two informationprocessing capabilities make it possible for neural networks to find good approximate solutions to complex (large-scale) problems that are intractable. In practice, however, neural networks cannot provide the solution by working individually. Rather, they need to be integrated into a consistent system engineering approach. Specifically, a complex problem of interest is decomposed into a number of relatively simple tasks, and neural networks are assigned a subset of the tasks that match their inherent capabilities. It is important to recognize, however, that we have a long way to go (if ever) before we can build a computer architecture that mimics the human brain.  Neural networks offer the following useful properties and capabilities: 1. Nonlinearity. An artificial neuron can be linear or nonlinear. A neural network, made up of an interconnection of nonlinear neurons, is itself nonlinear. Moreover, the nonlinearity is of a special kind in the sense that it is distributed throughout the network. Nonlinearity is a highly important property, particularly if the underlying physical